# WG_code_challenge
## Setup
For this challenge I used Python Anaconda for the environment and pip for dependency management. To create a new environment, execute the following in terminal:
```
conda create -n wg_code_challenge
```
Then activate the environment:
```
conda activate wg_code_challenge
```
and finally, install dependencies:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Question 1
This is a coding task that involves finding the missing integer in a shuffled set of contiguous integers. The input contains a flat file that presents the series in the following format: 
There are multiple problems within a file. Individual problems are delimited with a header. The header is a greater than character $>$ followed by an integer $N$ as a header line. An example header is: $>10$. The value $N$ indicates the size of the set. Following this is a series of $N - 1$ integers which can span multiple lines.

### Solution
To run the solution for question one, execute the following command in terminal, from the project directory:
```
python question_one.py -f ABSOLUTE_FILE_PATH
```
where the `ABSOLUTE_FILE_PATH` is the absolute file path to the integer sequence input file. By default, the supplied file (`question_one.txt`) is called, with the following:
```
python question_one.py
```

Output results will have the following format:
```
Missing element: ELEMENT_NUMBER
...
```
for each sequence in the file.

### Testing
To run the test suite, execute the following command in terminal, from the project directory:
```
python test_question_one.py
```

## Question 2 
This involves finding a 2x copy number gain. The problem folder attached contains a mock reference genome, a .bed file containing mock gene annotations, a set of baseline reads (which don't contain the copy number gain), a set of reads where one of the annotations has a 2x copy gain and thus a significant change to the depth of coverage. This task involves finding which annotation contains that gain.
The mock genome was generated by a random nucleotide sequence concatenation. Both baseline reads were generated via wgsim and the reads in the query set (following the naming paradigm: reads_R*.fastq.gz) were artificially amplified only in one of the bed intervals. For this question we ask that you provide us with the name of the annotation where this copy gain occurred and the methodology you used to find it. You can assume the reads will not contain any PCR or optical duplications. These files were generated on a Mac so let me know if there is an issue with carriage returns or line endings and I’ll be happy to reformat files as needed.
Feel free to analyse the data further and present any stats or interesting metrics you discover.

### Terminology
| Term | Description |
| - | - |
| WGS | Whole Genome Sequencing.|
| Read | A short DNA sequence, typically 150-300 base pairs long. |
| Copy number gain | The number of times a DNA segment is repeated in the genome. |
| gene annotations||
| coverage ||
| amplified ||
|PCR||
|optical duplications||